# Native JS
- As you probably noticed, none of the modules above were native to JavaScript. 
- Instead, we’ve created ways to emulate a modules system by using either the module pattern, CommonJS or AMD.
- Fortunately, the smart folks at TC39 (the standards body that defines the syntax and semantics of ECMAScript) have introduced built-in modules with ECMAScript 6 (ES6).
- ES6 offers up a variety of possibilities for importing and exporting modules which others have done a great job explaining — here are a few of those resources:
> [jsmodules.io]http://jsmodules.io/cjs.html()

> [exploringjs.com](http://exploringjs.com/es6/ch_modules.html)

- What’s great about ES6 modules relative to CommonJS or AMD is how it manages to offer the best of both worlds: 
> compact and declarative syntax and asynchronous loading, plus added benefits like better support for cyclic dependencies.

> Probably my favorite feature of ES6 modules is that imports are live read-only views of the exports. (Compare this to CommonJS, where imports are copies of exports and consequently not alive).

- Here’s an example of how that works:
```bash
// lib/counter.js

var counter = 1;

function increment() {
  counter++;
}

function decrement() {
  counter--;
}

module.exports = {
  counter: counter,
  increment: increment,
  decrement: decrement
};


// src/main.js

var counter = require('../../lib/counter');

counter.increment();
console.log(counter.counter); // 1
```

- In this example, we basically make two copies of the module: 
> one when we export it, and one when we require it.

- Moreover, the copy in main.js is now disconnected from the original module. 
> That’s why even when we increment our counter it still returns 1 — because the counter variable that we imported is a disconnected copy of the counter variable from the module.

> So, incrementing the counter will increment it in the module, but won’t increment your copied version. 
- The only way to modify the copied version of the counter variable is to do so manually:
```bash
// src/main.js
var counter = require('../../lib/counter');

counter.counter++;
console.log(counter.counter); // 2
```

- On the other hand, ES6 creates a live read-only view of the modules we import:
```bash
// lib/counter.js
export let counter = 1;

export function increment() {
  counter++;
}

export function decrement() {
  counter--;
}

// src/main.js
import * as counter from '../../counter';

console.log(counter.counter); // 1
counter.increment();
console.log(counter.counter); // 2
```
